---
page_title: "circleci_checkout_key Resource - terraform-provider-circleci"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a project checkout key
---

# circleci_checkout_key (Resource)

Manages a project checkout key

**Note**: Checkout keys cannot be updated.

If you modify the `type`, this will delete the existing checkout key and recreate one instead.

In addition, there can be only 1 preferred checkout key for a project.
As such, when creating multiple checkout keys, the latest key will become the preferred.
This can cause a drift in state for the older key, in terms of `preferred` attribute.

## Creating User keys

When creating user keys for the first time, you need to **authorize CircleCI with GitHub** for GitHub projects.
Otherwise, the CircleCI API will return a HTTP 500.

Please see the CircleCI support article below for more information:
https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us/articles/360006975013-Troubleshooting-An-internal-server-error-occurred-Create-User-Keys-with-the-API

## Deleting keys

When using `terraform destroy`, please note that only the private key on CircleCI is deleted.

The public key stored on your VCS provider (e.g., GitHub) is not deleted.
Please delete the public key on the VCS provider side accordingly.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "circleci_checkout_key" "deploy_key" {
  project_slug = "github/acmeorg/foobar"
  type         = "deploy-key"
}

output "deploy_key_fingerprint" {
  description = "Fingerprint of SSH key"
  value       = circleci_checkout_key.deploy_key.fingerprint
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_slug` (String) The project-slug for the environment variable
- `type` (String) The type of checkout key to create. This may be either `deploy-key` or `user-key`

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The date and time the checkout key was created
- `fingerprint` (String) An SSH key fingerprint
- `id` (String) Read-only unique identifier: uses fingerprint
- `preferred` (Boolean) A boolean value that indicates if this key is preferred
- `public_key` (String) A public SSH key
